Add OpenTelemetry Collector Builder docs (#2516)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/collector/builder.md

Reviewer: Should we mention how to get the builder in this document (i.e. link to the releases page)?

Author: YES, what a thing to forget!

Author: Added, PR updated.

---

> title: Builder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: OpenTelemetry Collector Builder (OCB)
linkTitle: Builder
```

weight: 25
---

> The OpenTelemetry Collector Builder (ocb) is a command-line interface tool that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Collector Builder (OCB) is a command-line tool that
```

I know that the tool itself is named `ocb`, but the acronym should be in uppercase. When referring to the tool, it is ok to use lowercase.

> The OpenTelemetry Collector Builder (ocb) is a command-line interface tool that
> generates sources and binaries for OpenTelemetry Collector
> [distributions](../distributions).

Reviewer 3: Putting the purpose of the tool in the opening paragraph will help users understand when they should use the builder sooner.

```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Collector Builder (ocb) is a command-line interface tool that
allows users to build a custom [distribution](../distributions) for the OpenTelemetry
Collector.
```

This tool is currently being used to build both the core and the contrib
distributions, and can be used to build custom distributions as well, allowing

> users to cherry-pick which components they need for their production usage,
> potentially even including their own custom components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
users to cherry-pick components they need for their production usage,
potentially even including their own custom components.
```

> This tool is currently being used to build both the core and the contrib
> distributions, and can be used to build custom distributions as well, allowing
> users to cherry-pick which components they need for their production usage,
> potentially even including their own custom components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This tool is currently being used to build both the [core](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol) and the [contrib](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib)
distributions. It can be used to build custom distributions as well, allowing
users to cherry-pick which components they need for their production usage,
potentially even including their own custom components.
```

> ## Installing

Reviewer 4: tooling pre-requisites, like `go`?

> You can download `ocb` from the OpenTelemetry Collector's
> [release page](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/releases)
> on GitHub. A container image is **NOT** available at this time. Prefer to use
> the same version number that you'll use in your manifest, as the builder is only
> guaranteed to work with the OpenTelemetry Collector API matching the builder's
> version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Download `ocb` from the Collector's
[release page](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/releases). 
A container image is **NOT** available at this time. We recommend that you download and use
the same version that you'll use in your manifest, since the builder is only
guaranteed to work with the OpenTelemetry Collector API matching the builder's
version.
```

> ## Manifest

Reviewer 4: link to somewhere where all the keys for the manifest are defined / explained?

Author: I think this doc would be the authoritative source of this information. Would you be open to opening a follow-up PR with that?

> The central part of a custom distribution is the distribution's manifest. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A central part of a custom distribution is the distribution's manifest. This
```

manifest defines the metadata for the distribution and lists all components that
should be included.

> This is an example `manifest.yaml`, containing only a couple of components:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is an example `manifest.yaml`, containing only four components:
```

```yaml
dist:
  module: github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/sidecar
  name: sidecar
  description: OpenTelemetry Collector Sidecar version

>   version: 0.73.0

Reviewer 4: comments explaining how these values affect the output?

Author: Done!

  output_path: ./_build

>   otelcol_version: 0.73.0

Reviewer 2: Here and elsewhere in the document, replace the current version (0.73.0) by `{{% param collectorVersion %}}`:

```suggestion
  otelcol_version: {{% param collectorVersion %}}
```

Author: I had to revert this, as it was causing the prettier script to break the final snippet in places where it would render the final YAML as an invalid config. Is there a way to bypass the prettier for this snippet?

Reviewer 2: Yes, place `<!-- prettier-ignore -->` before the start of the code block.

If you prefer, I can make this change after the PR is merged. Let me know.

receivers:
  - gomod: go.opentelemetry.io/collector/receiver/otlpreceiver v0.73.0

exporters:
  - gomod: go.opentelemetry.io/collector/exporter/otlpexporter v0.73.0
  - gomod: go.opentelemetry.io/collector/exporter/otlphttpexporter v0.73.0

processors:
  - gomod: go.opentelemetry.io/collector/processor/batchprocessor v0.73.0
```

> Tip: you can keep the manifest in a source code repository and generate the
> binaries via your CI/CD pipeline

> ## Building the custom distribution

Reviewer 4: While slightly out of scope for building a collector, I'd like to see a minimal dockerfile for packaging the output a build.
This was the only other thing I looked for in the releases repo when I needed to build my own instance.
While simple enough to write on your own, it's nice to have a confirmation of the (lack of) required dependencies.

Reviewer 4: semi-related, cross platform builds?
also static / CGO_ENABLED=0 ?

Author: Good idea, would you mind adding that as a follow-up improvement to this, once it's merged? Given the number of approvals on this already, I would prefer to have this improvement on its own PR.

> You can build a distribution by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Build a distribution by running the following command:
```

> ```console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

ocb --config manifest.yaml
```

> This will generate a binary under `./_build/sidecar`. This is a regular

Author: Done!

OpenTelemetry Collector binary that can be configured and started like the
official distributions. For instance, this is a valid configuration file for
this distribution:

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317
processors:

exporters:
  otlp:
    endpoint: example.com:4317

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: []
      exporters: [otlp]
```

> If the above configuration was saved under a `sidecar.yaml` file, this is how
> the custom distribution can be started:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the previous configuration is saved to `sidecar.yaml`,
then you can start the custom distribution as follows:
```

> ```console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

Author: For my own learning, why is sh better than console here?

./_build/sidecar --config sidecar.yaml
```

## Generating the sources

By default, `ocb` will generate the sources and will compile the distribution in

> one go. While this is our recommended best-practice, there are situations where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
one go. While this is recommended practice, there are situations where
```

you do not want to generate the binary on the same step, or perhaps you want to

> generate the sources and further customize it. In that case, use the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
generate the sources and further customize it. In such cases, use the
```
